<h2>FIWARE for Smart Cities</h2>

This eLearning course is created for anybody interested in FIWARE, Smart City projects or who is considering to work
with Open Data.

It is intended to be a quickstart guide with different content sections in each of the modules, for both, people with
general interest and also the technical people.

This course asks a series of business and process related questions and provides answers to them using FIWARE concepts
and technology.â€¨ We will provide a condensed overview about what FIWARE is, and how to work with some of the most
important FIWARE Generic Enabler to transform its benefits into Smart City applications, use-cases and experiments.

We will demonstrate one simple exemplary way to quick start into the development process of a real Smart City prototype
application using FIWARE Generic Enabler. You should then be enabled to transfer the learnings into your individual
processes and technology stacks.

<h3>Academy Courses</h3>

#### 1. Course Introduction

This high level overview lesson, will present you the course objectives we are following, the plot of our exemplary
Smart City demo prototype application "Thunderstorm warning", as well as the content structure and the course
navigation. With it, we want to make it as easy as possible for you to find your individual path through this FIWARE
quickstart course.

-   [Course introduction](http://46.17.108.49/00/)

#### 2. The FIWARE Ecosystem

As an integrated quickstart course and a guided roundtrip through FIWARE we have to cover some of the generals. You will
receive a high level overview about the FIWARE mission, the various FIWARE technologies and the efforts around
standardization. We will highlight the benefits for Smart Cities when using Open Source software and engaging in a vivid
community with relevant strategic partnerships.

-   [FIWARE ecosystem](http://46.17.108.49/01/)

#### 3. FIWARE Lab Cloud

This lesson presents the general functionality of the FIWARE Lab cloud, based on the market leading Open Source cloud
platform OpenStack. It will be the learner's starting point for the technical instructions.

The presentation will be condensed and made for people without any knowledge about backend technologies and procedures.
It will provide relevant background information and links to additional sources of information to help understanding the
main concepts quickly even for non back-end savvy learners.

Area covered: _Self Service Interfaces - Cloud Portal_

-   [FIWARE Lab Cloud](http://46.17.108.49/02/)

#### 4. Introduction to APIs

This lesson presents a general overview of the concepts of current state-of-the art APIs. We have noticed very different
levels of knowledge about this topic. Therefore, we want to make sure that all parties involved speak the same language
and do really know what APIs are and what they can provide.

-   [APIs](http://46.17.108.49/03/)

#### 5. Introduction to Docker

This lesson presents a general overview of Docker that has been adopted by FIWARE to be one of the core tools for
development and experimentation.

Learners shall gain a general understanding about what Docker is, what it can provide and how it works. We have a close
look at the Smart City individual point of view, i.e. speeding up their development process and the management of a
scalable virtual infrastructure.

-   [Docker](http://46.17.108.49/04/)

#### 6. Identity Management, Authorization and Securing Resources

This lesson presents the interconnected concept of the 3 integrated security Generic Enablers for Identity Management,
Authorization via a PDP (Policy Decision Point and execution via a PEP (Policy Execution Point) Proxy.

It demonstrates how the Generic Enablers work together to ensure adequate data access security for business-grade
applications in the FIWARE cloud.

Generic Enablers covered: _KeyRock, AuthZForce, Wilma_

-   [Security](http://46.17.108.49/05/)

#### 7. Connecting IoT devices

This lesson presents the integration of sensor data into our Smart City demo application "Thunderstorm warning".

We will show the advantages of using FIWARE Generic Enablers to integrate real-world sensors and hardware devices into
Smart City applications. These building blocks enable agile software development and interoperation without hindering
from national or technical borders. A solid foundation for future-proof and citizen-centric Smart City applications
across a large number of devices and platforms.

Generic Enablers covered: _IoT Agents_

-   [Connecting IoT devices](http://46.17.108.49/06/)

#### 8. Context data platform

This lesson show the usage of the Orion Context Broker. One of the core FIWARE Generic Enabler that often acts as a core
communications bus in most of the interactions among Generic Enabler in Smart City applications.

The learner will gain insights about the advantages and flexibility of smart cloud-based context-data management. He
will experience how to interact with the Orion Context Broker.

Generic Enabler covered: _Orion_

-   [Context data platform](http://46.17.108.49/07/)

#### 9. Open Data portal and Businesss

This lesson show the core FIWARE solutions to provide Open Data to the public. The CKAN Open Data framework and the
marketplace solution for Open Data.

Focussing on Smart Cities, CKAN offers a complete software package, ready to install. The data can then be marketed via
the new Business API Ecosystem which makes both a perfect fit to start Smart City applications with a public user
interface.

Generic Enablers covered: _CKAN Extensions_, _Biz Ecosystem_, _Wirecloud_

-   [Open Data portal and businesss](http://46.17.108.49/08/)

#### 10. Complex event processing

This lesson demonstsrate the benefits of developing rule-based complex event processing applications.

We will provide insights that allow Smart Cities to think of and develop more agile connected applications, responding
to urgent situations with both speed and precision.

Generic Enablers covered: _CEP_

-   [Complex event processing](http://46.17.108.49/09/)

#### 11. Big data and BI analytics

This lesson demonstsrate the usage of the 2 FIWARE Generic Enabler to offer data analysis functionality.

We will reflect the core functionality offered for real Smart City use cases. The learners shall gain insights into the
possibilities such data analyzing applications provide.

Generic Enablers covered: _Cosmos, Knowage_

-   [Big data and BI analytics](http://46.17.108.49/10/)

#### 12. Demo Application

This lesson round usp the practice-orientated nature of the entire course. We will finalize the course with finishing a
simple but working prototype of the Smart City demo application "Thunderstorm warning".

Throughout all course modules we have been working on the development of our Smart City demo application "Thunderstorm
warning". Now we will put the final results together.

-   [Demo app](http://46.17.108.49/11/)
