<h2>Promotional Videos</h2>

<!-- textlint-disable terminology -->
<!-- textlint-disable no-dead-link -->

[![](https://nexus.lab.fiware.org/repository/raw/public/badges/chapters/operations.svg)](https://www.fiware.org/)
[![filab](https://img.shields.io/badge/tag-filab-orange.svg?logo=stackoverflow)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/filab)

FIWARE Ops has produced a series of **promotional** videos, which present and showcase the federation in a clear and
comprehensive way. These videos are used as supporting materials during our training sessions. They are published here
in the on-line learning platform and social media channels.

The key purpose of the introductory videos is to present the showcases to Infrastructure Owners and Operators, showing
the advantage of joining the FIWARE Lab federation and of installing
[FIWARE Ops](https://www.fi-xifi.eu/about-xifi/what-is-xifi.html) and the FIWARE Generic Enablers

The key purpose of the third video is that it sells the benefit of being part of the FIWARE Lab ecosystem to a range of
stakeholders, including the Infrastructure Owners/Operators, as well as Smart City innovators, that include the Public
Authorities, SMEs/Developers and Accelerators.

<h3>Academy Courses</h3>

<h4>Lesson 1. How do I let Customers Know what is available?</h4>

Getting the most out of the services available.

[![](http://img.youtube.com/vi/egbSeDHxKgw/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=egbSeDHxKgw "What is available?")

This Use Case covers all aspects of the cloud computing paradigm (IaaS, PaaS, SaaS), demonstrating how easy it is for an
Infrastructure owner/operator to create a FIWARE Lab-compatible IaaS environment from the bare metal up, search,
compare, register and advertise available PaaS or SaaS services (GEs/SEs) across the federation how to take into
consideration specific requirements, such as regulatory or data protection restrictions, during design and deployment of
an application and finally how to monitor the performance of running services, requiring no intervention from the
stakeholder (performance monitoring adapters come pre-installed with the GE images).

<h4>Lesson 2. How do I get the best out of what is available?</h4>

Optimising network performance. It’s important to know where to deploy and on occasion to be able to manage bandwidth
and performance so that technologies work at their best. This showcase demonstrates how to monitor, manage performance,
and capitalise on network performance.

Without the FIWARE Network Adapters it is not possible to offer tenants the NaaS (Network as a Service) features across
the whole federation (i.e. users cannot create virtual networks spanning multiple FIWARE Lab nodes).

[![](http://img.youtube.com/vi/iEtOtSHFsuM/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iEtOtSHFsuM "Getting the most from FIWARE Lab")

This aggregated showcase focuses on the network functionalities, which allow the user to leverage the FIWARE Lab network
federation. These include also the possibility to offer QoS and monitoring the network traffic.

To achieve this goal FIWARE has developed solutions which operate both at intra-domain and inter-domain level. At
intra-domain level it is possible to associate a QoS policy to a VM acting at the OpenStack NaaS level.

The additional features at inter-domain level are:

-   to join the tenant’s networks to different FIWARE Lab nodes using the federated network (MD-VPN) -> Tenant VMs can
    be deployed on multiple FIWARE Lab  nodes but then can communicate with each other using an isolated virtual network
    (i.e., multi-tenant networks spanning multiple Nodes)

-   to enable QoS in the federation performing network monitoring and network optimization

To achieve these goals, an SDN controller and monitoring component has been developed.

Please note that falls into this macro group of showcases, because in addressing a more general capability of FIWARE to
support a migration pathway, it is actually a real example of porting an experiment defined in the FIRE Ofertie project
([http://www.ofertie.org/](http://www.ofertie.org/)) from the OFELIA testbed
([http://www.fp7-ofelia.eu/](http://www.fp7-ofelia.eu/)) to FIWARE Lab.

<h4>Lesson 3. I am a startup, why should I use FIWARE Lab?</h4>

FIWARE Lab nodes offer a unique environment to support start-up and innovative product bootstrapping. The process of
creating a start-up or an innovative product is a challenge. Indeed, the road to success requires a mix of ingredients
like technological skills, funding, specific types of resources, mentoring, test-users, etc.

[![](http://img.youtube.com/vi/LH7oaakpte4/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LH7oaakpte4 "Why use FIWARE Lab?")

This showcase aims to demonstrate how a rich ecosystem offered by the combination of infrastructures (FIWARE Lab – the
Federated Infrastructures) and an innovative platform (FIWARE) can effectively support the different needs of
acceleration for an innovative idea through:

-   The availability of appropriate resources capable of supporting the development of FIWARE-based products;

-   Technical consultancy for the adoption of a Future internet platform;

-   Business coaching and mentoring;

-   Funds to support the product proof-of-concept (pre-seed or seed);

-   Early-adopters and testers to validate the idea;

-   Easy portability of the FIWARE product to different areas.

Each FIWARE Lab Node represents a complete ecosystem designed to fully support the innovation lifecycle. FIWARE Lab
nodes offer more than ‘standard cloud-based’ resources (e.g., cloud services, sensors, and networks): for instance, they
provide access to geo-localized accelerators, test-users and open data sets. Moreover, the design of FIWARE Lab
guarantees the easy migration of an application to any other node belonging to the FIWARE Lab.

</section>
